---
title: How do you understand about client before the meeting?
date: "2020-06-020 T23:46:37.121Z"
template: "post"
draft: false
slug: "prepare-for-meeting-client"
category: "Design Inspiration"
tags:
  - "customer preparation"
  - "failure"
description: "What makes you different from others while communicating with one person is your understanding of someone’s background"
socialImage: "/media/image-2.jpg"
---

Today I read an article, actually a detailed answer of a foreigner - who is Founding Partner at Mekong Capital in Vietnam since 2001 for the question: What's the future of Vietnam like?

Started gently by a few achievements of Vietnam in our fight against COVID-19, the article impressed me by the latter parts: he understands Vietnam history thoroughly and extensively, even more than most of Vietnamese people do. 

What makes you different from others while communicating with one person is your understanding of someone’s background. I always believe that people’s characteristics are the result of the lengthy process of the way they live, they work, they connect with other people, how difficultly they have to put effort in achieving their targets, etc. A country’s characteristics or a business’s characteristics is the same. It’s merely a more complex combination of different events, people that happen to the country or business during its history. 

Therefore, before giving consultation to any client, it’s very important for me to doing all research around the business: what’s their industry, how long it takes for the client to build this business, who’s the people I will talk with, what’s their possible pain and their expectation, why they have those pains, which event in the past that lead to their current pains and expectation, etc. Probing all kind of information by doing all kind of paperwork: research on Google, their website, linkedin, etc, imaging all possible scenarios, combining with my knowledge and experience while deploying system for different clients in each industry help me to quickly connect with people, dig more deeply into their pain to suggest the suitable solution. Specifically, I will 

Which is this company about?

You can click About us to quickly check this section if the company has a website, a landing page or an ecommerce site to sell products, you can quickly understand about the company’s history and their value.



1.What are people talking about them?

Do all research on Google to check the articles about the company. Instagram, Facebook also are the good channels to see how customer interacts and assess the company’s products and service.

2.How does the end customer buy the products from retailers now?

You can play the role as the end customer, trying to search products, looking for the favorite things, checking out on website of retailer. By this way, you also can discover the possible points that you can improve from their current business operation.

3. What is the possible scenarios that can happen in business operation and the retailer’s possible pain points?

After experiencing client’s website interface and learning about customer’s industry, company, value, you already have an overview of business operation. You can combine with your experience in the past or learn more about the general process and the problems that the business might have to confront to prepare for the meeting

Fun facts: Do you know that one of the most important skills of consultants from McKinsey - top 3 consulting companies in the world is researching? McKinsey recruits a lot of people from different backgrounds: including from athletics to scientist, but not limited to any fields and they give consultation to thousand of big enterprises all over the world, make profound impact on US economy since the early years of 20th century until now. It seems amazing but their approach is similar: they let their staffs devour tons of documents about client, about industry and work with experts in the field to comprehend the possible scenarios/pain points as well as expectation even before meeting clients. 

In summary, I just want to brief everything in one sentence: By failing to prepare, you are preparing to fail."

